You know, thinking about digital currency in general, like digital finance,
it's a,
one of the big transitions transformations of our world.
In some sense, it's not just about money,
or you could argue that money is everything. I mean, it's like money,
isn't just the, the, the narrow definition,
your money money is really everything. And so we're,
you could argue that sort of, uh,
cryptocurrency is like the base layer of this transformation
to the digital space and everything else would just be built on top of it.
I use a different word, um, that I think is kind of closer to your, uh, world,
which is it's ultimately automation. And what I mean by that is, uh,
you know, before 1970 or 1980, all the assets were analog.
And so when you have analog assets, physical stock certificates, physical bonds,
right? Physical de do a home, uh, yet to physically exchange them. Yeah.
When we wanted to increase transactions and increase kind of
global will finance and access,
we took those physical assets and we created electronic QIP assets.
So now we have in centralized databases, kind of a file represents the asset.
That's sitting somewhere in custody and you and I can transact them a little bit
easier, but still centralized. There's still some bureaucracy. And, and, uh,
you know,
maybe it takes two days to transact rather than actually mailing it across the,
uh, the, the world. Now,
what we're seeing is a transition from those electronic cus to these digital
assets. And so if you look at again, just let's say money, uh, or currency,
every currency in the world's gonna be digital,
you're gonna have a digital dollar, a digital Euro, Y R and B.
You're gonna have decentralized, uh, kind of open source money like Bitcoin.
You're also gonna have private currencies, like Facebook's attempt at DM. Uh,
and there will be others that will try to do this.
And so when you get everything digital, right,
and I think that's the kind of the first step that everyone focuses on the
competition at the technology layer essentially goes away.
You get some level of feature parity and sure.
There's bells and whistles on each kind of implement of a digital currency.
But at the end of the day, the technology is relatively the same. Uh,
and ultimately what it'll do is it will facilitate the adoption of digital
wallets. So you have to have a digital wallet,
regardless of what digital currency you have, same with me,
same with everybody else in the world. But what it does do is when you kind of,
uh, push away and reduce the friction of competition at the, uh,
technology layer, it moves the competition to the monetary policy layer.
And so when you get to that layer, now,
all of a sudden it becomes interesting because all of the currencies are the
same, except for this one right now. And maybe there'll be others in the future.
Uh, but, but for sure, Bitcoin today,
and people may try to replicate in a private manner or something,
but Bitcoin is kind of the, the only finite scare, uh, digital sum.
And so when you then have that pretty big difference in that competition at the
monetary policy layer, it's actually not gonna matter where you get paid. Right?
And, and what I mean by that is like you and I both live in a single currency
environment. I get paid in dollars.
I historically have saved in dollars.
All of the assets in my life are denominated in dollars.
And I owe my debts and dollars whether it's taxes or, or in the private market.
And I don't have to worry about foreign currencies. I don't exchange any thing.
The only time I would ever think about another currencies is if I'm going to
another country in their single currency environment mm-hmm and in order to
change or exchange my currency,
I go to the bank or I go get ripped off at the airport. <laugh> right. Like,
those are my two options. So it's high friction to change between currencies.
When the competition of technology is kind of innovat it away.
Now I can get paid in dollars,
these digital dollars and with a click of a button switch into any other
currency in the world.
And so what ultimately happens is value and liquidity is going to coalesce
around the best monetary policy.
And so you get in this very weird world where even if the United States says,
Hey, you're gonna get paid in dollars. You have to pay your taxes in dollars.
You're start to see people operate in a multicurrency environment where they
say, okay, I got paid to my digital dollar, click a button. I save in Bitcoin.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, it stays there tax or grows my purchasing power. Oh,
I need to pay my taxes.
Let me switch back into dollars with click of a button and pay.
When you go to a multicurrency world, it's not just about currency.
It's now multi-asset world,
because not only is the currency digitized,
but that same technology is used to digitize stocks, bonds,
and commodities as well.
And so today we live in a very fragmented financial world where basically I have
a brokerage account, I have a bank account.
I may have an alternative asset account, et cetera,
when I can put all those assets in a single digital wallet.
And I can then from asset to asset without having to go back to a single unit of
account, very like.
Frictionless, uh, going from asset to.
Asset. Yeah.
So now what you end up doing is you start to open up the possibility for machine
to machine transactions. Yeah. So today,
if you and I write software code for two machines to transact with each other,
yeah.
They can't transact physical currency <affirmative> and in many cases they can't
actually transact the electronic QIP currencies or assets either,
cuz there's too long of a settlement time. So you can't get true automation.
Right.
So the whole idea of like the car's gonna drive over a strip in the road and
it's gonna pay the toll. Right. Well, that can't happen right now.
Cause literally the transaction won't go through <laugh> right.
And so I always joke that like in an automated world, it's like a CD rom,
but we're trying to take cassette tape player assets and put it in the CD rom.
Yeah. It's just incompatible technology references.
Uh, nobody understands at this point. So by the way, you need to update.
Your references. I probably do.
It's like taking a CD rom trying to put an MP3 player into, uh, streaming. But,
but I think that the reason why that becomes really interesting is when you
start to create these digital all assets,
now you open up the world of possibilities. So when new technologies created,
you can do two things. You can either create new things.
The world's never seen before, or you can use it to improve the old world.
Most people, because it's the easiest thing to think about,
want to improve the old world. So an equivalent of this would be, uh,
when the internet came along a media company that had newspapers would say, Hey,
we should take a PDF of the newspaper and we should put it on a website.
And now anyone in the world can go to this website and they can read the
newspaper today. That was valuable.
But it missed out on the ability to change headlines, to test,
to put multimedia, to distribute it differently, to, you know,
do all kinds of things that today we understand the internet really empowered.
And so what I think we're about to watch happen is we're gonna digitize the
assets. We're gonna put them all into these, uh, digital wallets.
You're gonna get automated technologies where machines can now transact with
each other and we're gonna do simple things.
Like why do we pay people once every two weeks?
Why don't we just pay them at the end of every day?
Or why don't I literally stream payments to you? Yeah. On an hour by hour basis,
based on the work you do,
it would solve incredible economic issues in our country and in countries around
the world.
But historically businesses can't do this because the technology problem,
they can't keep track of it all. How do they pay everyone every day?
How do they pay everyone every hour? Like you just.
Can't do it. Yeah. It's funny. The, the,
the vision of the future you're painting, it's kind of an exciting one.
And it's almost makes me sad looking into the future when we'll look back at
this time, it's like how incredibly inefficient, uh,
financial transactions were like the transaction of value of any kind,
like how, like what to pay each other. Like there has to like processes,
there's like payroll and all this kind of just the,
the entirety of the transactions is just like painful.
Almost all transactions are painful. And even,
and the companies that innovate to make the transactions a little bit
more frictionless, like Amazon with a one click purchase button,
like win out huge, but even that's really painful.
So it's actually really interesting.
Especially then you start to move that into the space of data.
There's a lot of people thinking about privacy and data and like, can we put,
can we, uh,
like convert data into like money it's just so that you can pay for
how much you reveal to the companies about your own private data that can then
be used to assign value to you.
So you can use a service for free if you hand over the data,
but there's like explicit transaction going on.
So you can empower all those kinds of things that, uh,
will just like fundamentally change our world. That's that's really, really,
really exciting.
One of, one of the most interesting things to me, um, is, uh,
I invested in a company called Bridget and what they told me was they said 8
billion was paid to the top four banks last year
on overdraft fees. Okay.
So literally they took $8 billion from people who didn't have money in their
bank account. <laugh> right. And so when you dig into,
why is that a lot of times, it's not that the people don't have the money,
it's actually a mismatch of the payments. Yeah.
So what ends up happening is you get paid on the first and the 15th,
but on the 12th, your Netflix bill hits on the 13th,
you went grocery shopping and on the 14th, your car payments hit you overdraft.
And then on the 15th you actually get the check and then you're able to pay not
only the overdraft, but for the, uh, expenses that you have.
And so something as simple as just getting paid at the end of every day
immediately would eliminate, you know,
some big percentage of those $8 billion of value that flows to large
institutions on overdraft fees.
Yeah. And also,
I mean this whole process with overdraft fees and just many of the financial
transactions we have to live through today,
forces many of us to be like accountants,
like to understand, uh, the different mechanism of financial,
like the movement of money, as a opposed to you,
which is what we wanna do as human beings operating at higher layers of like
providing services for others of like following your passions and
like working for others, like doing cool or, or, you know,
basically providing value,
exchanging value in the world and not thinking about the money,
the money takes care of itself. And then you see the results of it. So you're,
you're able to think in terms of money,
but not have to know how the, like the accounting works.
Automation simply frees humans up to do more creative work. Yeah. Right. Yeah.
Like that, like that's it. Yeah.
And what we, which is why they use the term,
which is why you use the term automation, which I think is kind of brilliant,
uh, reframing of all of this. Yeah. Cuz.
Ultimately digital technologies are merely the conduit to usher us into that
world. Yeah.
And I think the most fascinating part of this entire industry
is people who are,
are trying to figure out now that we're gonna have these digital technologies,
how do we usher in that automated world faster?
And so there's people who are building all kinds of incredible things, right.
There's literally, um, some technologies where you can stream,
uh, for paying, for consumption of content. Yeah. Right.
There's I saw somebody recently who they basically said, Hey,
I have created something,
but it's not gonna be released until everyone in almost like a GoFundMe type
situation pays for it in combination, then it gets unlocked.
And so when you start to think about this, it's um,
not only innovation on the technology front, it's innovation around, uh,
the way that we form, uh, capital, it's the way that we, um,
organize resources. It's the way that we build companies.
It's the business models, right? It's the application of those technologies.
All that stuff starts to change and go back to 20. Uh,
2007 is when the iPhone came out,
Uber wasn't possible revenues. Good on the line.
Like all these companies that weren't possible before when the digital
technologies are kind of adopted on a global scale.
I think that we all myself included drastically underestimate how fast
and how big innovation can be. Uh, cuz it's just hard, right? Like,
like we like to think.
Linearly and that's not how the world works.